Contact:
School of Computer Science, University of St Andrews.
Jack Cole Building, North Haugh
St Andrews KY169SX
pdpa (at) st-andrews dot ac dot uk
Twitter: @percyperezd
Linkedin profile
Bitbucket repository (10)
Github repository(2)

Current Activities

I am a PhD student in the School of Computer Science at the University of St Andrews, member of the System Research Group, and organizer member of the DevOps Day 2018 in Edinburgh. My current research topic is focus on nMANET, which is an approach that intends to offer an alternative to solve the limitations of Mobile Ad-hoc Networks in emergency scenarios such as earthquakes and social riots. nMANET research intends to show whether future Internet architectures such as Name Data based Networking protocol can be applied in Mobila Ad-hoc networks. To achieve this, I am designing, implementing and testing JNFD, which is the prototype of nMANET, and that is functional in Andriod and Linux base mobile devices. The source code) of JNFD is open source and it has been tested in smartphones such as MotoE, MotoG, and Samsumg Note4, and also in laptops and through JNFD simulators such as Mini-JNFD.

nMANET research projec is supervised by Dr. Alexander Voss and Dr. Ishbel Duncan.

  
Areas of interest

One of my main interests is to be involved in backend projecs for Unix based platforms, such as minimal Debian/Ubuntu and Android, and build and deploy systems and services by utilising programming languages such as Java, C/C++, Unix Shell Scripting and Python. At project level, I am interested to be involved in projects such as automation, devops infrastructure, mobile big data, decentralised data distribution, social data analysis, wireless and wired networkng, mobile cloud computing, embedded systems, and power saving techniques.

In daily basis, I am a fan to use terminal base tools, and I would appreciate if you could let me know some tools you recommend. I list the tools I used and I am currently using as a way to have a self-record of tips and suggestions. As you may see, I had using terminator as main terminal console to most operations, such as Vim editing for development, retrieval information in Internet, on/off line multimedia.

Finaly, I listed the most important projects I was involved in until now, which include areas such as mobile and long distance telecommunication, cloud and data center infrastructure for mobile gaming platforms, development for post trading platfoms in stock markets, and big data infrastucture and analysis.

Relevant tools of interest

I am interested to use new Vim and command line base tools, but so far the following summaries a bit of the most relevant artefacts I had experienced with.

    DevOps:
        Development using Java, Shell Scripting, Python,C
        Testing using Junit, Spock
        Automation through Unix shel scripting, gradle, puppet client.

    Data collection & analysis:
        Hadoop, MapReduce, Scribe, Flume, Descriptive Statistic with R.
    Varying experience:
        OpenLdap, LVM, Daemontools.
    IDE:
        Vim + plugins + NERDTree + ctags, Android Studio, Eclipse, Intellij.
    Databases:
        Oracle, MySql, PostgreSQL, Hive, Hbase, MongoDB.
    Platforms/OS:
        Minimal Debian + i3, Ubuntu, Kali, Android, EC2, AWS, Atmel Microntrolles.
    Networking:
        TCP/IP, NDN, iptables, zebra, Cisco.
    Version Controlling:
        Git (Bitbucket, GitHub), mercurial.

